OK.
Welcome back.
So next we're going to move on to creating our first component.
So here I have a simple diagram that shows the basic components that are app has.
So we have the app component.
It's going to be really simple.
We're basically just going to have a To Do List component inside of it.
Now we could you know put all the to do list functionality inside the app component itself and not have
a To Do List component.
But this leaves room for us to also add more components like a nav bar component a footer.
You know some sort of side component rather than just putting all the functionality in the app.
It also allows us to have a nice semantic name for our component to do list rather than just calling
something app.
So inside app we're going to have to do list.
And in this video we're going to focus on to do list.
So we have our list of to do items.
So each to do item is just going to display a little bullet point with the text as well as a button
to delete that too.
And it will also reflect if it's a completed or incomplete to do.
And so some of that logic will be in here but the logic to delete or add a new to do it's actually going
to happen in the list because our To Do List is where the state is being managed where all those dues
are in the state.
And we also have it to do form.
This will just be a simple form where you hit up you type something and you hit a button and that button
triggers an event and it calls a function that it's going to add to our to do list to do state and all
that's good.
But also we have talked about the API functionality.
So we're going to have API calls that are triggered when the to do us component loads when the component
mounts or when it will mount are going to fire off an API call to fetch all of the existing to use from
our database then we're going to create two items with those to do that come back when our to do form
is submitted.
We're going to take that data and fire it off as a POST request to our API to add a new to do.
And then when it's done successfully Hopefully there's no error.
We're going to add a new to do item to the page.
But for now we're going to just focus on to do list and we're going to get something showing up on the
page.
So this should be super quick.
We're just going to go and define what we want to happen.
So I'm just my cat is causing some trouble.
I'll be right back.
OK come back.
My cat decided to spill a glass of water.
So where was I.
We're going to add in our To Do List component which doesn't exist yet.
It's going to give us an error.
And actually I'm going to take this opportunity to move my terminals down here so I can see those errors
as they happen.
Here we go.
And if I save you know tells me to do list is not defined.
So let's define to do list so we to make a new file.
And rather than stopping the server and using touch I'm going to go over here.
Go down to new file and it was going to make a to do list.
J.S. and in there we put our little boiler plate.
So we're going to import re-act from react.
It will start there and then the first thing we'll do is define our most basic component.
So we're going to do class to do list extend component.
Hopefully this is familiar right now and all we'll do is start with a simple render and render it's
just going to return an H1 and then here we'll just say to do list it's format this bit better change
right spacing over here to 2 for the tab size.
OK.
So next we need to actually export our component export to do list just like that.
OK I see it we have a component defined but we're still getting the error because we're not importing
it in our app.
So appear.
I'm actually going to remove this logo we're not using that and we'll get a somewhat annoying warning
that saying we're not using it.
So I'm going to get rid of that and I'm going to import to do list from that dot slash to do list.
There we go.
And that looks good.
Everything's working.
We should see our H-1 and we do.
All right.
So we have our component defined.
Everything is looking good.
And that's pretty much it for this super quick video.
Next we're going to actually fetch our initial data and get some to do showing up.